## Header
This is the course header. This will be added on top of every page. Go to [DoDAO.io](https://www.dodao.io) to know more.

 ---
 
 ## Balancer
 
 
---

##### Who founded Balancer?  

- [ ]  Sam Bankman-Fried
- [x]  Fernando Martinelli
- [ ]  Vitalik Buterin
- [ ]  Satoshi Nakamoto
  
Hint: NoHint
         
Explanation: Fernando Martinelli, a well-known Brazilian entrepreneur and Maker Community member, founded Balancer.


Sub Topics: No Sub-Topics
 

---

##### What is Balancer?  

- [x]  Automated Market Maker
- [ ]  Lending and Borrowing Protocol
- [ ]  Staking Protocol
- [ ]  Centralized Crypto Exchange
  
Hint: NoHint
         
Explanation: Balancer is an AMM that uses a constant mean formula which allows for more
than two assets and weights outside of fifty-fifty, making it different
from other AMMs


Sub Topics: No Sub-Topics
 

---

##### Which one of these best defines a Balancer Vault?  

- [ ]  It is the smart contract that records and saves all the transactions
- [ ]  It is the smart contract that manages routing of all the orders
- [x]  It is the smart contract that manages and holds all the tokens in a Balancer pool. It is also the portal through which most Balancer operations occur.
- [ ]  It is the smart contract that holds all the veBAL
  
Hint: NoHint
         
Explanation: Vault is a smart contract that controls all tokens in every
balancer pool. It also serves as the gateway through which most operations
in the exchange (Swaps, market entries, and exits) are carried out.


Sub Topics: No Sub-Topics
 

---

##### Which of these pools is not present in Balancer?  

- [ ]  Liquidity Bootstrapping Pools
- [ ]  MetaStable Pools
- [ ]  Managed Pools
- [x]  Centralized Pools
  
Hint: NoHint
         
Explanation: There are no Centralized Pools in Balancer

Sub Topics: No Sub-Topics
 

---

##### How can one receive veBAL?  

- [x]  By locking BPT of the 80/20 BAL/ETH pool
- [ ]  By locking BAL for 1 year
- [ ]  By locking ETH for 1 year
- [ ]  By locking USDC
  
Hint: NoHint
         
Explanation: Instead of pure BAL, BPT of the 80/20 BAL/ETH pool can be locked into
veBAL, similar to how CRV can be locked into veCRV. This has the big
advantage of keeping BAL liquid as well as setting a precedent for other
teams to do the same with their 80/20 Balancer pools


Sub Topics: No Sub-Topics
 

---

##### What are the additional benefits that veBAL holders receive?  

- [ ]  veBAL holders get 10% of all fees colleted
- [x]  75% of all fees generated by the protocol are proportionally distributed to veBAL holders
- [x]  veBAL holders get 10% of all BAL minted weekly
- [ ]  veBAL holders also get 2000 USDC every week
  
Hint: NoHint
         
Explanation: Users who invest in the BAL/WETH 80/20 Pool are rewarded with BPT
(Balancer Pool Token). veBAL lockers also receive 75% of protocol fees. In
addition to 75% of protocol revenues, veBAL holders also get 10% of all
BAL minted weekly.


Sub Topics: No Sub-Topics
 
